Add documentation page for NetworkModifications (#3305)
powsybl/powsybl-core: docs/grid_features/network_modifications.md

`UnplannedDisconnection` should be used instead.

It works on:
- `Connectable` elements.
- HVDC lines, by disconnecting their converter stations
- Tie lines, by disconnecting their underlying dangling lines

It is possible to specify a side of the element to connect. If no side is specified, the network modification will try to connect every side.

Class: `PlannedDisconnection`

#### Unplanned
This modification is used to disconnect a network element from the bus or bus bar section to which it is currently connected. It should be used if the disconnection is unplanned. If it is not,
`PlannedDisconnection` should be used instead.

It works on:
- `Connectable` elements.
- HVDC lines, by disconnecting their converter stations
- Tie lines, by disconnecting their underlying dangling lines

It is possible to specify a side of the element to connect. If no side is specified, the network modification will try to connect every side.

Class: `UnplannedDisconnection`

### Generator

#### Modification
This modification is used to apply a set of modifications on a generator.

> The possible data to update are each optional among:

Author: done

- `minP`, the minimum active power boundary in MW.
- `maxP`, the maximum active power boundary in MW.
- `targetV`, the target voltage value in kV.
- `targetQ`, the target reactive power value in MVAR.
- `connected`, the connection state of the generator terminal.

> - `voltageRegulatorOn`, to activate or deactivate the generator voltage regulator status. If `true` and the generator target voltage is not set then compute an acceptable value for the generator `targetV` before activating.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `voltageRegulatorOn`, to activate or deactivate the generator voltage regulator status. If `true` and the generator target voltage is not set then an acceptable value for the generator `targetV` is computed before activating.
```

> - the active power if `targetP` or `deltaTargetP` are given. An active power is determined by the new `targetP` if given, and if not then the `deltaTargetP` is taken into account instead and the new value of the generator `targetP` is the addition of the old generator value with the given delta target P value. Then, according to the given `ignoreCorrectiveOperations` parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the active power if `targetP` or `deltaTargetP` are given. An active power is determined by the new `targetP` if given, and if not then the `deltaTargetP` is considered instead and the new value of the generator `targetP` is the addition of the old generator value with the given delta target P value. Then, according to the given `ignoreCorrectiveOperations` parameter:
```

  - if the `ignoreCorrectiveOperations` is true, this determined active power is applied as the new generator target P value.

>   - if the `ignoreCorrectiveOperations` is false, then the new active power value depends also on the boundaries and is the minimum value between the generator `maxP` and the maximum value between the generator `minP` and the previously determined active power value. Besides, if the generator connection state has not been updated before within this `NetworkModification` then connect the generator if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If `ignoreCorrectiveOperations` is false, then the new active power value will also depend on the limits and will be the minimum value between the generator `maxP` and the maximum value between the generator `minP` and the previously determined active power value. Besides, if the generator connection state has not been updated before within this `NetworkModification` then the generator is connected if necessary.
```

Author: done

Class: `GeneratorModification`

#### Connection
This modification is used to connect a given generator.

> If the generator terminal is regulating then it also set its target voltage if an acceptable value is found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the generator terminal is regulating then it will also set its target voltage if an acceptable value is found.
```

Author: done

Reviewer 2: This change is not applied.

Class: `ConnectGenerator`

#### Set to local regulation
This modification is used to set the generator regulating terminal to a local regulation.

The target voltage value is set to the same value for all the generators of the bus that are regulating locally.
In case other generators are already regulating locally on the same bus, targetV value is determined by being the closest value to the voltage level nominal voltage among the regulating terminals.
If no other generator is regulating on the same bus, targetV engineering unit value is adapted to the voltage level nominal voltage, but the per unit value remains the same.

Class:`SetGeneratorToLocalRegulation`

### HVDC line
This modification is used to modify a given HVDC line (and potentially its angle droop active power control extension).

- modify the HVDC line `activePowerSetpoint` if given, relatively to the existent `activePowerSetpoint` if `relativeValue` is true or as a replacement value if not.
- modify the `convertersMode` with the given one if set
- modify the angle droop active power control extension (if existing but will not crash if not found for the HVDC line):

>   - enable or disable the ac emulation if given with the given `acEmulationEnabled`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Enable or disable the AC emulation if `acEmulationEnabled` is provided
```

Author: done

Reviewer 2: This change was missed:
`ac` -> `AC`

>   - update the active power if given with the given `p0`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Update the active power `p0` is provided
```

Author: done

>   - update the droop in MW/degree if given with the given `droop`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Update the droop in MW/degree if `droop` is provided
```

Author: done

Class: `HvdcLineModification`

### Load

#### Modification

> This modification is used to change the `P` and `Q` values of the load to new fixed values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This modification updates the `P` and `Q` values of the load.
```

> If the `relativeValue` is set to true, then the new constant active power (P0) and reactive power (Q0) are set as the addition of the given value to the ancient one.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `relativeValue` is set to true, then the new constant active power (`P0`) and reactive power (`Q0`) are set as the addition of the given value to the previous one.  
```

Author: done

Reviewer 2: Can you also apply these changes?
```
P0 => `P0`
Q0 => `Q0`
ancient => `previous`
```

> If `relativeValue` is true, then the new constant active power (`P0`) and reactive power (`Q0`) are set as the addition of the given value to the previous ones.  
> If `relativeValue` is false, then the new constant active power (`P0`) and reactive power (`Q0`) are updated to the new given value.

Reviewer 2: To be consistent with the same block in the `Dangling line` section:

```suggestion
If `relativeValue` is set to true, then the new constant active power (`P0`) and reactive power (`Q0`) are set as the addition of the given values to the previous ones.  
If `relativeValue` is set to false, then the new constant active power (`P0`) and reactive power (`Q0`) are updated to the new given values.
```

Author: done

> If the `relativeValue` is set to false, then the new constant active power (P0) and reactive power (Q0) are updated to the new given value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `relativeValue` is set to false, then the new constant active power (`P0`) and reactive power (`Q0`) are updated to the new given values.
```

Author: done

Reviewer 2: Also here:
```
P0 => `P0`
Q0 => `Q0`
```

Reviewer 2: There is also `value` => `values`

Author: done

Class: `LoadModification`

#### Percent modification
This modification is used to add or remove a percentage of the P and Q of the load. The percentage to add or remove for P and Q cannot be less than -100 (in percentage).

Class: `PercentChangeLoadModification`

### Phase shifters

#### Optimize tap modification
This modification is used to find the optimal phase tap changer position of a given two windings transformer phase shifter id.

> A phase shifter optimization load flow is run with the configured `load-flow-based-phase-shifter-optimizer` to determine this optimal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A phase shifter optimization load flow is run with the configured `load-flow-based-phase-shifter-optimizer` to determine the optimal tap position.
```

Author: done

Class: `PhaseShifterOptimizeTap`

#### Fixed tap modification

> This modification is used to update the phase tap changer of a given two windings transformer phase shifter id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This modification updates the phase tap changer of a given two-winding transformer phase shifter id.
```

Author: done

It updates its `tapPosition` with the given value and set the phase tap changer as not regulating with a `FIXED_TAP` regulation mode.

Class: `PhaseShifterSetAsFixedTap`

#### Shift tap modification
This modification is used to update the phase tap changer of a given two windings transformer phase shifter id.

> It sets the phase tap changer as not regulating with a `FIXED_TAP` regulation mode and updates its `tapPosition` by adjusting it with the given `tapDelta` applied on the current tap position. The resulting ta position is bounded by the phase tap changer lowest and highest possible positions.

Author: done

Class: `PhaseShifterShiftTap`

### Replace tie lines by lines
This modification is used to replace all the tie lines of a network to simple lines built from the original tie line and its 2 dangline lines.

- the two voltage levels are set from the tie line dangling lines terminal voltage levels (the first voltage level from the first dangling line and the second from the second one).
- for each voltage level the topology kind is taken into account to create node (for `NODE_BREAKER` kind) or bus and connectable bus (for `BUS_BREAKER` kind)
- the tie line id, name, r, x, b1, b2, g1, g2 are set in the new line

> - active power limits, apparent power limits and current limits are set on each side of the line from the limits of the 2 tie line dangling lines

Author: done

> - terminal active and reactive power are set for both terminal from each dangline line active and reactive power

Author: done

> - terminal active and reactive power are set for both terminal from each dangline line active and reactive power

Reviewer 2: You missed this change:
dangline => danglin**g**

- line properties are set from the merge of the tie line and its 2 dangling lines properties
- line aliases are set from the merge of the tie line and its 2 dangling lines aliases

> - if the tie line has a pairingKey then its is added to the new line as a pairingKey alias

Author: done

- the tie line and its dangling lines are removed from the network

Class: `ReplaceTieLinesByLines`

### Shunt compensator
This modification is used to (dis)connect a shunt compensator and/or change its section count in service.

> If the modification connects the shunt compensator and its terminal is regulating then it also set its target voltage if an acceptable value is found.

Author: done

Class: `ShuntCompensatorModification`

### Static var compensator

> This modification is used to modify the voltage and reactive power setpoints of a static var compensator, following a load convention.

Author: done

Class: `StaticVarCompensatorModification`

### Switch
#### Close
This modification is used to close a switch.

Class: `CloseSwitch`

#### Open
This modification is used to open a switch.

Class: `OpenSwitch`

### Transformers

#### Three windings transformers legs rated voltage

> This modification is used to modify the rated voltage of each leg of a three windings transformer.

Author: done

On each leg the new rated voltage is computed from the given common rated voltage multiplied by the ratio (leg old rated voltage / rated voltage of the three windings transformer (the `ratedU0` also used as nominal voltage) at the fictitious bus (in kV)).

Class: `ThreeWindingsTransformerModification`

> #### Replace 1 three windings transformer by 3 two windings transformers

Author: done

This modification is used to replace all or a given list of `ThreeWindingsTransformer` by triplets of `TwoWindingsTransformer`.

> For each threeWindingsTransformer to be replaced:

Author: done

- A new voltage level is created for the star node with nominal voltage of ratedU0.

> - Three TwoWindingsTransformers are created, one for each leg of the ThreeWindingsTransformer to transform.

Author: done

- The following attributes are copied from each leg to the new associated twoWindingsTransformer:

>   - Electrical characteristics, ratioTapChangers, and phaseTapChangers. No adjustments are required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Electrical characteristics, ratio tap changers and phase-tap changers . No adjustments are required.
```

Author: done

Reviewer: After discussion with @olperr1,  "phase tap changer" seems better than "phase-tap changer"... sorry about that :(

Author: done

  - Operational Loading Limits are copied to the non-star end of the twoWindingsTransformers.
  - Active and reactive power at the terminal are copied to the non-star terminal of the twoWindingsTransformer.
- Aliases:
  - Aliases for known CGMES identifiers (terminal, transformer end, ratio, and phase tap changer) are copied to the right twoWindingsTransformer after adjusting the aliasType.
  - Aliases that are not mapped are recorded in the functional log.
- Properties:
  - Star bus voltage and angle are set to the bus created for the star node.

>   - The names of the operationalLimitsSet are copied to the right twoWindingsTransformer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The names of the operationalLimitsSet are copied to the right `twoWindingsTransformer`.
```

Author: done

  - The rest of the properties of the threeWindingsTransformer are transferred to all 3 twoWindingsTransformers.
- Extensions:
  - Only IIDM extensions are copied: TransformerFortescueData, PhaseAngleClock, and TransformerToBeEstimated.
  - CGMES extensions can not be copied, as they cause circular dependencies.
  - Extensions that are not copied are recorded in the functional log.
- All the controllers using any of the threeWindingsTransformer terminals as regulated terminal are updated.

> - New and removed equipment are recorded in the functional log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- New and removed equipment is recorded in the functional log.
```
Not sure about this one but since it is uncountable...

Author: Yes you're right

Author: done

This modification is used to replace all or a given list of `TwoWindingsTransformer` by `ThreeWindingsTransformer`.

In the list of `TwoWindingsTransformer` if only one of a triplet of `TwoWindingsTransformer` is given then the 3 `TwoWindingsTransformer` will be transformed to a `ThreeWindingsTransformer`.

Conditions to detect a triplet of TwoWindingsTransformer to transform:
- BusbarSections and the three TwoWindingsTransformer are the only connectable equipment allowed in the voltageLevel associated with the star bus.
- The three TwoWindingsTransformers must be connected to the star bus.
- The star terminals of the twoWindingsTransformers must not be regulated terminals for any controller.
- Each twoWindingsTransformer is well oriented if the star bus is located at the end 2.

Then a ThreeWindingsTransformer is created to replace them:
- The following attributes are copied from each twoWindingsTransformer to the new associated leg:
  - Electrical characteristics, ratioTapChangers, and phaseTapChangers. Adjustments are required if the twoWindingsTransformer is not well oriented.
  - Only the Operational Loading Limits defined at the non-star end are copied to the leg.

>   - Active and reactive power at the non-star terminal are copied to the leg terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Active and reactive powers at the non-star terminal are copied to the leg terminal.
```

Author: done
